=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

UNIVERSAL::isa - Attempt to recover from people calling UNIVERSAL::isa as a function

=head1 VERSION

version 1.20140927

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    # from the shell
    echo 'export PERL5OPT=-MUNIVERSAL::isa' >> /etc/profile

    # within your program
    use UNIVERSAL::isa;

    # enable warnings for all dodgy uses of UNIVERSAL::isa
    use UNIVERSAL::isa 'verbose';

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Whenever you use L<UNIVERSAL/isa> as a function, a kitten using
L<Test::MockObject> dies. Normally, the kittens would be helpless, but if they
use L<UNIVERSAL::isa> (the module whose docs you are reading), the kittens can
live long and prosper.

This module replaces C<UNIVERSAL::isa> with a version that makes sure that,
when called as a function on objects which override C<isa>, C<isa> will call
the appropriate method on those objects

In all other cases, the real C<UNIVERSAL::isa> gets called directly.

B<NOTE:> You should use this module only for debugging purposes. It does not
belong as a dependency in running code.

=head1 WARNINGS

If the lexical warnings pragma is available, this module will emit a warning
for each naughty invocation of C<UNIVERSAL::isa>. Silence these warnings by
saying:

    no warnings 'UNIVERSAL::isa';

in the lexical scope of the naughty code.

After version 1.00, warnings only appear when naughty code calls
UNIVERSAL::isa() as a function on an invocant for which there is an overridden
isa().  These are really truly I<active> bugs, and you should fix them rather
than relying on this module to find them.

To get warnings for all potentially dangerous uses of UNIVERSAL::isa() as a
function, not a method (that is, for I<all> uses of the method as a function,
which are latent bugs, if not bugs that will break your code as it exists now),
pass the C<verbose> flag when using the module.  This can generate many extra
warnings, but they're more specific as to the actual wrong practice and they
usually suggest proper fixes.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Perl::Critic::Policy::BuiltinFunctions::ProhibitUniversalIsa>

L<UNIVERSAL::can> for another discussion of the problem at hand.

L<Test::MockObject> for one example of a module that really needs to override
C<isa()>.

Any decent explanation of OO to understand why calling methods as functions is
a staggeringly bad idea.

=head1 AUTHORS

=over 4

=item *

Audrey Tang <cpan@audreyt.org>

=item *

chromatic <chromatic@wgz.org>

=item *

יובל קוג'מן (Yuval Kogman) <nothingmuch@woobling.org>

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2011 by chromatic@wgz.org.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=head1 CONTRIBUTORS

=for stopwords Karen Etheridge Ricardo Signes

=over 4

=item *

Karen Etheridge <ether@cpan.org>

=item *

Ricardo Signes <rjbs@cpan.org>

=back

=cut
